[Music]
ladies and gentlemen welcome to the
horror mine where we talk about
mysteries thrillers and horror movies
this week my friends i'll be going over
my favorite horror film of all time that
film my friends is the brilliant south
korean horror film the whaling released
in 2016 the whaling was directed by
south korean director na hong jin who
previously directed the amazing and
underrated thriller the chaser the
whaling tells the story of a small
korean town plagued by a disease that
causes the residents to brutally murder
one another the events seem linked to
the appearance of a mysterious japanese
man who recently moved into town i'll be
going over the events that take place
throughout the film and explaining the
crazy plot twist ending and what i
believe it truly means director na hong
jin purposely makes this a film open to
viewer interpretation there are many
theories and analyses online about the
film's themes meanings and what is
really happening on screen i'll be doing
my best to give my thoughts and
explanations of the film but keep in
mind there are really no wrong answers
as some things are left so open-ended my
interpretations may heavily differ from
yours and there might be things that i
miss that i would love to discuss with
you in the comments section down below
if you enjoy this video make sure to
click that like button which will help
all of us from catching the mysterious
disease and going insane but without
further ado sit back and relax and join
me as we explore the mysteries in the
wailing our movie begins with a verse
from the bible luke 24 37 they were
startled and frightened thinking they
saw a ghost he said to them why are you
troubled and why do doubts rise in your
minds look at my hands and my feet it is
i myself touch me and see a ghost does
not have flesh and bones as you see i
have a quote that significance quietly
looms in the back of our characters
minds throughout the film an old man is
quietly sitting at the edge of a lake
baiting a fishing line with a worm while
mumbling something inaudible we meet our
main character jean goo a police officer
living in the small town of goksong
which translates into whale he lives
with his wife mother-in-law and young
daughter hyojin one early morning
zhonggu is called out to the scene of a
grisly murder of an entire family
committed by a man named hungook the man
seems completely out of it and has boils
all over his body they go to the man's
house and see that he was involved in
some type of witchcraft or black magic
in the room we see a large nest he was
possibly sleeping in surrounded by lit
candles there is a dead crow lying on
the floor next to a crucifix and what
appears to be a burned bible cue the
ominous title sequence
zhonggu and his partner sung buk are
discussing rumors they heard about a
mysterious japanese man who just moved
into town ever since he moved into town
several people have died or gone insane
with the most recent incident being the
man hong guk murdering his two neighbors
zhonggu states that the lab results
found large traces of mushrooms in his
system and believes that is what made
him go insane songbook doesn't believe
mushrooms had anything to do with it and
that the japanese man is somehow
involved with everything that's been
happening so the question is was it
mushrooms or a japanese man that made
him go on a murderous rampage well in
mario's case it's both the lights
suddenly go out and a naked woman
briefly appears at the front doors
scaring the hell out of the officers the
next day zhongu buys his daughter a new
hair clip and spends some quality time
with her down by the river he looks
across the river and sees the japanese
man sitting on the other side that night
the police are again called out to a
grisly crime scene a house has
completely burned to the ground and the
survivors appear to have turned into
zombie-like individuals a crazed man and
woman attack zhonggu who freaks out
instead of defending himself
after his brave reaction zhonggu notices
the japanese man watching the events
unfold from the crowd and their eyes
briefly meet this crime scene was a lot
more hectic than the previous one and
it's obvious that the small town police
force is overwhelmed back at the police
station hugh jin brings her father a
fresh pair of clothes and drops her hair
clip on the way out zhonggu realizes
that the crazy woman who attacked him
was the same woman who appeared naked in
front of the station the previous night
the woman's body was covered in the same
boils as hong guk the next day her dead
body is discovered hanging from a tree a
detective tells jean-gu that the fire
didn't kill the woman's family but that
she actually stabbed them to death while
guarding the house jongu meets a
mysterious young woman who tells him
that she was a witness to the crime she
says she heard the japanese man as a
ghost and if you keep seeing him around
he receives a call from his partner and
upon returning the woman is no longer
there bro
you had one job he then sees the
japanese man practically naked on all
fours feasting on a dead deer the man is
wearing a fundoshi a traditional
japanese cloth-like underwear made of
cotton must be pretty comfortable for
him to be walking around in public like
that i wonder if they have those on
amazon the man approaches jean-gu
looking absolutely terrifying with blood
all over his face and bright red eyes he
wakes up screaming in bed showing that
it was just a nightmare a major aspect
of this film is the fear of the unknown
guksang is a small town in the
countryside and everyone knows each
other when the japanese man moves into
town the rumors begin flying through the
roof the viewer much like the residents
of goksung have no idea what to believe
what is real and what is false we
receive information just like the
characters in the film through whispers
and in this case nightmarish visions
that blend together with reality
director na hong jin doesn't hold your
hand with mindless exposition rather he
leaves the audience to make their own
opinions and interpretations as to the
events unfolding on screen they meet
with a hunter named yoki who claims to
have encountered the japanese man eating
a dead deer just like in jongu's
nightmare they enlist him in showing
them the way to the japanese man's house
they come across the dead deer's carcass
and it suddenly starts to storm gyogi
tells them that the house is just over
the hill and refuses to go any further
jongu tries to get him to stay but
accidentally causes him to fall he gets
back up and vows to get them fired
this scene had me absolutely cracking up
when i first saw it but upon subsequent
viewings i realized that it's more
important than i originally thought
djoki says that they deserve to get
scorched by lightning and it immediately
happens to him this is meant to show how
dangerous our words can be in that we
must watch what we say to others our
words no matter how malicious or
harmless and intent have consequences
and can always come back to haunt us
this point is driven further home in the
next scene at the hospital with dukkhi's
wife portrayed by actress lee jong-un
now widely recognized for her brilliant
role as the housekeeper in parasite you
can take all the preventative measures
that you want to avoid something however
the moment that you wish harm upon
others you will suffer the consequences
that render all the previous good you
have done useless this is an underlying
lesson that has huge significance later
on in the film zhonggu is then drawn to
a huge commotion coming from hungook's
hospital room the man who committed the
very first murders hungu's body begins
to violently shake and contort all over
the place almost as if he were being
controlled or possessed the bones in his
neck seemingly start to break on their
own and put him out of his misery
much to zhonggu's dismay who jin is the
next one to mysteriously fall ill she
wakes up screaming in the middle of the
night saying that a strange man keeps
banging on the door trying to get in if
we look at her body movement she is
violently shaking and contorts her body
just like hyung-guk at the hospital the
next day hugin seemingly appears better
and is stuffing her face with fish which
jongu says she never usually eats seems
fishy as a result her grandma says she
will be contacting a shaman to assess
the situation sungbok enlists the help
of his nephew yangi sam a japanese
speaking deacon so they can go talk to
the stranger this scene and the one
before it are very interesting to me
because they are the first time that the
whaling's crucial theme of faith is
introduced the mother-in-law is
enlisting the help of a buddhist shaman
songbook brings his deacon nephew and
wears a rosary around his neck showing
that when facing the unknown people will
lean toward and look to their faith for
answers i'd also like to point out that
throughout the film zhonggu never truly
places his faith in anything he briefly
seems skeptical about the idea of a
shaman and pokes fun at songbook for
wearing the rosary they arrive at the
man's house but he is not home they
conduct an illegal search of his house
hoping to find some kind of clue that
connects him to what's been happening
and find some truly terrifying things
jeongu finds a type of shrine or altar
with all sorts of different things we
see the head of a black goat and the
skull of another surrounded by horns
this heavily resembles the head of a
sabbatical goat commonly associated with
black magic and the devil we also see
that a decapitated buddha statue in
front of what i assume to be the parents
of the japanese man the buddha statue
oddly has a red string wrapped around it
the statue appears very much desecrated
by the man and is placed below the
pictures of his parents possibly showing
that he holds his parents in much higher
regard than a god while zhenggu does
appear confused about what he sees he
probably doesn't realize the darker
implications of what lies in front of
him referring back to his lack of faith
to his horror songbook finds a hidden
room filled with pictures of the dead
citizens of goksung the pictures depict
people before and after their deaths as
well as pictures of those who are still
alive the pictures heavily imply that
the man has been stalking the citizens
of goksung and seems to incriminate him
in their deaths upon taking a closer
look he sees what appears to be the
personal belongings of some of the
residents we can see things such as a
watch a necklace and even a strand of
hair among other things isam who was
supposed to keep watch is suddenly
attacked by the man's guard dog zhonggu
brings up the very pressing question
the stranger suddenly returns to his
home and calms the dog he enters the
house in silence and looks completely
intimidating
songbook then reveals that the japanese
man was in possession of one of fujin's
shoes jeongu confronts his daughter and
asks her how the man got one of her
shoes she admits to having met the
stranger but instead of disclosing any
details she goes off on jongu
that night while his daughter is asleep
he goes through her things looking for
information he sees several disturbing
images in her notebook including a
drawing of what appears to be the devil
reaching out for something with his hand
he is surrounded by several crucifixes
with one in particular being pointed out
with a flashlight this drawing
foreshadows later events in the film
while examining her body he lifts up her
dress and finds the exact same boils as
the previous victims of the disease
hugin wakes up and absolutely goes off
on him
it becomes clear that hyojin is now
possessed which has zhonggu desperate
for a cure he returns to the stranger's
house with isam and learns that he
burned all the incriminating pictures
and belongings zhonggu then proceeds to
completely destroy the man's shrine and
kills his dog with a pickaxe
he gives the man three days to get out
of town
or he will end up just like his dog the
entire ordeal elicits zero emotional
response from the man who simply watches
the events unfolding the next day a
black goat is gutted and hung in front
of jungkook's house zhonggu wakes up to
the screams of his horrified family but
is somehow immobilized and unable to get
up this would appear to be a direct
response to his actions against the
stranger they return home from the
doctor to find that hyojin has stabbed
the woman watching over her with
scissors her possession has become more
aggressive seemingly as a direct result
of zhongu's act of violence and threats
against the stranger songbook tells him
that he has been experiencing pain and
nightmares ever since they went to his
house he says that they must do
something before the stranger gets them
first the shaman named il guang finally
arrives looking stylish as heck
[Music]
he discovers a dead crow that was
planted inside of a jar and says that
they are dealing with a truly wicked
spirit he performs a colorful and loud
ritual that elicits a powerful response
from hiljin and eventually puts her to
sleep jongu admits to having recently
disturbed the stranger whom the shaman
says is actually an evil ghost or demon
jeongu wonders why his innocent daughter
was chosen of all people the shaman
replies that the demons simply cast out
the bait and his daughter took it this
was hinted out in the very first scene
in the film where the japanese man is
baiting a fishing hook with a worm the
police are called out to the house of a
man named park chun bay where several of
his family members are found dead inside
a well the front of the house looks
eerily similar to that of jean goose as
if a ritual had just taken place park
june bay's body is discovered by the
stranger inside of his work truck
located somewhere in the woods he seems
to be in the later stages of possession
as he now appears lifeless covered in
boils and murdered his entire family
both the stranger and the shaman are now
preparing for their own respective
ritual the stranger is seen praying
underneath her waterfall with a
mysterious woman watching from afar
didn't know she had an old man fetish
the shaman is conducting what he calls a
death hex that is meant to drive the
evil spirit out of hyojin's body he
tells jongu that it is important he does
nothing to interfere with or taint the
ritual both rituals are seemingly
happening simultaneously and start out
at different musical tempos the shaman's
ritual immediately starts out loud fast
and extravagant while the stranger's
ritual starts off with the slow beating
of a drum the tempo eventually catches
up and appears to sync up with that of
the shamans
the stranger has a photo of park chun
bay displayed on his altar and his
ritual seems to be bringing chun bae
back to life the shaman chops down a
totem and begins piercing it with metal
stakes which seems to be placing huge in
and excruciating pain with each blow it
appears that iguang's ritual is now
hurting the stranger as he falls to the
ground crying in pain and attempts to
crawl away as the ritual progresses
houjin's body begins to violently
contort she begs jongu to make it stop
and he interrupts the ritual despite the
shaman's clear instructions not to
interfere the japanese man wakes up
shivering and afraid and the mysterious
woman appears before him hugin is rushed
to the hospital and falls into some type
of coma zhonggu and isam consult the
father of the local church who dismisses
their claims that the japanese man is
evil he states that those are merely
rumors that can't be proven unless
you've seen them with your own eyes it
is at this point that i believe
zhonggu's faith reaches an all-time low
the shaman's ritual seems to have caused
more harm than good and the church
refuses to get involved and help him he
enlists the help of his friends with the
intent to kill the japanese man and end
things once and for all this is in my
opinion where the film enters its most
confusing territory we see the japanese
man running over the parkchun based
truck to find him no longer there he
follows chun bay's trail back to his
house which is being searched by zhonggu
and his crew who are looking for him we
see that park tune bay has been revived
into a flesh-eating zombie similar to
the residence of the house that burned
down in the beginning of the film jongu
and his friends get absolutely
brutalized by the zombie chun bay and
this scene totally reminded me of
something straight out of a horror b
movie
just like hyung [ __ ] at the hospital in
the beginning of the film parchment's
bones suddenly break from inside him
killing him for good zhongu then notices
the japanese man hiding in the trees who
was watching the event unfold the whole
time they immediately begin chasing
after him in a very intense chase
sequence the old man reaches the edge of
a cliff and realizes he has nowhere else
to go jongu and his crew reach the end
of the cliff but to their surprise he is
nowhere to be found we now see the true
desperation jeongku feels to save you
jin as he breaks down in tears
[Music]
we see that the stranger is actually
barely hanging onto the edge of the
cliff he falls to the ground but remains
unnoticed by the group this next scene
had me confused and truly endowed about
its meaning for years as we hear the
group walking away the japanese man
suddenly bursts into tears
this is the first time that the japanese
man has displayed any type of emotion
ever since coming across the mysterious
woman at his house the japanese man has
appeared more human-like having
displayed a range of emotions from fear
shock and despair the stranger then sees
the mysterious woman looking at him from
a distance he seemingly begins running
after her as we see jongu driving away
and failing to follow the basic rules of
the road the stranger suddenly falls
from the side of the mountain and is
struck by jongu's truck zhonggu and his
friends see the man they came to kill
lying dead on the floor before them they
threw his body over the mountain as the
mysterious woman watches the events
unfold from above at this time il guang
says
rushes over to his daughter at the
hospital who now appears to have
returned to normal we see that young
isam is now at the hospital healing from
his injuries a newscast on the tv claims
that a suspect has been arrested in
connection to the mushroom tonic case
that the police believe have been
causing people to go insane isam is
haunted by visions of the stranger in
everything he has witnessed the past few
days he is called out to a crime scene
in which songbook zhonggu's partner has
now gone insane and brutally murdered
his landlady back at home hyujin is
seemingly healed and jongu attempts to
clean up the items left by the shaman
his mother-in-law tells him to leave it
as they have the shaman to thank for
everything he receives several calls
from ill guang but ignores them this
shows that zhonggu believes his daughter
was healed not because of the shaman but
thanks to his actions for getting rid of
the stranger the shaman arrives in front
of zhonggu's home and his nose suddenly
begins to bleed profusely the woman
emerges from the shadows and causes him
to throw up uncontrollably
he returns to his home completely
terrified packs up all his belongings
and attempts to leave town his vehicle
is then swarmed by thousands of locusts
flying against his windshield causing il
guam to drive back into town he finally
gets a hold of zhonggu over the phone
and tells him that he must return to his
daughter immediately the shaman says
that the mysterious woman is the evil
spirit causing harm to the town and that
the japanese man was actually a shaman
trying to stop her the events of the
past few days have caused isam to
heavily question his faith seeing as his
uncle committed murder after they got
rid of the stranger this leads him to
believe that the evil has not yet gone
he returns to the stranger's house armed
with a sickle and sees light coming from
inside a cave in the distance zhonggu
returns home to find his daughter
missing he goes to look for her and
comes across the woman the woman tells
him that hyu-jin is still possessed by
an evil spirit and that the japanese man
is still alive she says that he is a
demon and death cannot touch him the
woman says that she set up a trap to
catch the demon and all jongu needs to
do is have faith and his daughter will
be saved hyujin returns to the house
clearly possessed once again now in the
cave isam comes face to face with the
japanese man who appears very much alive
isan believes the man to be the devil
himself he neither denies nor confirms
the accusation stating that isam already
made up his mind about who he is zhonggu
then receives a call from the shaman who
tells him not to believe the woman in
turn the woman says that the shaman and
the stranger are actually working
together she states that when the demon
is caught in the trap the rooster will
cry three times he must not cross the
threshold of his house until after the
third cry he hears the second cry and
asks her why all this is happening she
says that her father sinned when her
father suspected another and killed him
in this moment his family's fate relies
solely on his faith the woman grabs him
by the arm and asks him not to go her
skin now appearing gray and colorless
jeongu notices his daughter's hair clip
on the floor behind the woman we see
that she is wearing the sweater of the
infected woman at the bar and that she
was wearing parking based jacket in the
beginning of the film this convinces him
that the woman is responsible for
everything and he rushes home he crosses
the threshold of his home which causes
the flowers placed on his gate by the
woman to wither this is the same
withered plant seen at hungook's house
showing the guardian was also trying to
save him
back in the cave the japanese man says
to isam touch me and see
he then reveals his true form to be that
of a demon and takes a picture of the
stunned and terrified deacon
he quotes luke 24 37 as seen in the
beginning of the film which shows that
doubt ultimately led esam to his demise
this very moment was foreshadowed in
hujin's notebook earlier in the film
zhonggu returns home into his horror
discovers his wife and mother-in-law
have been brutally murdered by hyojin
hyojin is standing across from a
completely distraught zhonggu who calls
out to her several times to no response
having failed to protect and save hyojin
the woman sits outside in silence
listening to jungkook's whales of agony
reign once again befalls the town of
goksong as il guang drives up to jongu's
residence he walks in and sees a
completely mindless hyojin sitting in
front of her house similar to hong guk
and the beginning of the film he enters
the house and takes pictures of the dead
wife and mother-in-law he also takes a
picture of a mortally wounded zhonggu
who was presumably stabbed by hujin off
screen the shaman opens the trunk to his
car and drops a box revealing the
pictures of the citizens from the
stranger's house proving that the woman
was right all along and that the shaman
was working with the demon the entire
time in the film's final scene jongu in
his dying breath tells you jin that
everything will be okay because he is a
policeman we see a sweet memory of
happiness between he and hyojin before
the life fades from his eyes and the
movie ends
i wanted to take a deeper dive and try
to explain some of the more confusing
aspects of this film as previously
stated the film was purposely left
open-ended for interpretation there are
many theories and analyses on the true
meaning of the film and the events that
take place i'll be going over what makes
the most sense to me but feel free to
comment down below and give me your
interpretation of what you believe it
all means starting from the very
beginning the film opens with luke 24
37. the significance of this bible verse
sets up the theme of doubt felt
throughout the film the citizens cast
doubt on the japanese man from the
moment he arrives in town due to their
history it is no secret that japan and
south korea's relationship isn't very
strong this undoubtedly is a big
contributing factor that leads the
people of gokson to mistrust his arrival
and intentions as we now know from
having seen the ending of the film the
stranger is actually a demon or rather
his body is possessed by a demon when we
first see him in the film's opening
scene the japanese man is baiting a
fishing line and mumbling something
inaudible this symbolizes the demon's
true intent revealed by il guang in a
conversation with zhang gu the demon
simply cast out the bait not even he
knows what he'll catch the demon's
intent is solely to cause death and
chaos to goksung and its residents this
entire plotline is foreshadowed in this
brilliant movie poster for the film we
see the mountainous terrain of goksung
with a fishing hook and horns looming
over the region the demon most closely
resembles the japanese crow tengu a
supernatural yokai from japanese
folklore the tengu have long been known
in buddhism as evil beings who love to
cause chaos and mischief they have been
known to possess people and disguise
themselves as buddhist monks several
crows are seen throughout the film the
very first crow we see is in hungook's
bedroom right in front of what appears
to be a huge bird's nest i consider the
crows to be a type of emissary for the
demon one can be heard crashing right on
top of hyojin's bedroom right after she
gets sick and is probably the same crow
the shaman found in the jar of soy sauce
finally while searching through the
japanese man's house zhonggu also finds
a book relating to birds i believe that
the japanese man was formerly a buddhist
shaman that was possessed by the crow
tengu i do not know at which point in
time he became possessed however i
believe it was long before he came to
goksung the japanese man's house has
several items which provide us proof of
his humanity before his possession we
see an altar dedicated to his parents as
well as the decapitated statue of the
buddha the statue was possibly
decapitated by the tangu and wrapped in
a red string as a form of disrespect and
to seal its power throughout the film
the japanese man shows zero signs of
human emotion when he is possessed by
the tengu the only times he shows
emotions are when the tengu temporarily
leaves his body after the ritual the
japanese man is pursued by zhonggu and
his goons and displays shock fear and
eventually despair so what was that all
about well we now know that the shaman
il guang was working alongside the demon
the whole time none of these citizens
seemed to notice that the shaman
possibly appeared at the same time as
the japanese man seeing as they already
held great prejudice and doubt toward
the man it was easy to associate all the
weird and terrible things happening to
him he himself was the bait the
mysterious japanese stranger arrives in
town and people begin to get sick and
seemingly possessed the korean shaman
the hook reels them in with a false
ritual that is actually meant to fully
complete the demonic possession in a
small town like guksung word of mouth
essentially means everything negative
word of mouth was what turned people
against the stranger while positive word
of mouth was what drew people to the
shaman who was just as much a stranger
to the people of goksang as the japanese
man one of the early rumors was that the
stranger sexually assaulted the woman
whose house burned down this hints at
the possibility that the disease is
initially spread through sexual contact
while jean-gu and songbook are having
drinks they see a woman with the boils
on her neck this woman is later seen
consulting the shaman and the guardian
is seen in possession of her sweater at
the end of the film giving us much more
insight into the actual possession
process the disease is initially spread
through sexual contact the demon then
takes possession of a personal item an
individual becomes possessed the shaman
is then contacted and performs the
ritual which actually completes the
possession and causes the possessed to
commit murder the shaman or the demon
then takes a picture of the possessed
capturing their souls and turning them
into a mindless flesh-eating zombie the
only person to become possessed who
didn't seem to follow those steps was
sung book however i believe that both he
and isam were personally targeted by the
demon for their involvement in
disturbing his home with jean-gu this
theory takes on a whole darker meaning
as hyojin herself was possibly sexually
assaulted by the demon he first takes
interest in hyojin when he sees her
spending time with her father across the
river the woman's house is burned down
that night and hyojin brings her father
a set of clothes at the police station
before walking out her hair clip falls
on the floor this is the last time we
see hyojin before she becomes possessed
i believe that while she was walking
home alone she met the japanese man who
then sexually assaulted her and took her
shoe keep in mind that the demon was
lurking nearby and was even noticed by
zhonggu at the crime scene the very next
day zhonggu is then told the rumor that
the japanese man is a rapist which is no
coincidence while looking through her
notebook zhonggu sees images drawn by
hyojin that possibly depict her own rape
when hired by zhonggu to exercise the
demon from hyojin iguang is actually
performing a ritual to fully complete
her demonic possession he chops down
what appears to be a jiangsung a village
guardian totem and begins piercing it
with metal stakes this causes hyojin
excruciating pain and removes any
protection she has making her body fully
vulnerable for the demon to possess her
this is why the shaman warned zhonggu
not to interfere but he ends up doing so
anyways unknowingly temporarily saving
his daughter at the same time we see the
demon performing his own ritual to bring
parkhun bay back to life director na
hong-jin purposely shows these two
rituals in a way that leads the audience
to believe they are happening
simultaneously this is meant to trick
the audience into thinking that il guang
is casting out the demon from hyojin and
causing harm to the japanese man who
crawls away in pain however it was
actually the mysterious woman causing
him pain the mysterious woman is the
guardian protector of goksung and in
this moment casts out the tengu from the
japanese man this is why when he finally
comes to he is shivering from cold and
appears extremely afraid the japanese
man has regained control of his body and
is frightened by the sight of the
powerful woman il guang the japanese
stranger and the village protector are
all wearing white robes and this is
meant to confuse the audience as to who
is truly good and who is evil however
the woman's good nature was hinted at in
a biblical reference he who is without
sin casts the first stone the next day
jongu and his crew are chasing the man
who at this point is no longer possessed
by the demon this is why he is
displaying a true sense of fear and
begins to cry on his own after being
pursued he notices the woman looking at
him from afar and begins running after
her it is my belief that he is running
after her seeking for help that she does
not want to provide remember that while
she is the guardian protector for the
town she has a very specific way of
helping and never gets directly involved
also being that the japanese man is a
stranger she may not be allowed to help
him the japanese man somehow falls right
into jongu's truck and is subsequently
thrown off the side of the mountain this
is the moment that zhonggu commits a sin
and further complicates things for the
guardian trying to protect his family
i've always been kind of confused as to
how the japanese man fell off the side
of the mountain in the first place the
reason that makes the most sense to me
is that he somehow tripped and fell
thanks to the supernatural involvement
by the tangu this was the trap set by
the demon for zhonggu to commit a sin
which explains the shaman's quote right
after zhonggu is given one last
opportunity by the guardian to save his
family this is essentially a final
showdown between the guardian and the
demon who have been fighting for control
over zhengu's family zhonggu's faith is
being tested one last time however as he
does for a majority of the film he
allows his emotions to motivate his
decision and allows him to easily be
manipulated by the shaman's final phone
call jeongu sees his daughter's hair
clip and realizes that the woman has
been wearing the belongings of some of
the residents and immediately jumps to
the conclusion that she is evil he
ignores the fact that the japanese man
was also in possession of items
belonging to the residents to include
his own daughter's shu the demon used
their belongings to possess the
residents while the woman was using them
to protect them in this moment zhonggu
loses faith in the woman which is
reflected in the grayness of her skin he
ignores her pleas and breaks the trap
she laid out for the demon by crossing
the threshold into his house it is
ultimately zhonggu's doubt and lack of
faith throughout the film that leads to
his and his family's demise which
finally brings us to the shaman il guang
there were several visual clues that
hinted at his involvement with the demon
he was seen by zhonggu wearing a
japanese fundoshi just like the stranger
prior to conducting the death hex ritual
we saw a shot of park toon bay's
residence as if a ritual had just taken
place when approached by the guardian
his nose bleeds profusely and he begins
to throw up he rushes home in fear and
attempts to pray to buddha one of the
candles mysteriously goes out and a crow
falls dead right in front of him this
appears to be a warning from the
krotangu reminding him of who he should
truly be afraid of the shaman tries to
drive out of town anyways but is
deterred by the swarm of locusts
summoned by the demon to turn him around
now while i truly believe the shaman to
be evil i still believe that he is human
and willingly helping the demon the
entire time he is very extravagant and
always displays some kind of human
emotion it is a common belief that
making a deal with the devil can bring a
large amount of fame and wealth to an
individual but at a cost this is exactly
what il guang has gotten himself into he
has made a deal with the tengu to help
him terrorize the village and bring
about chaos in return he amasses a large
amount of wealth from the citizens who
pay for his rituals as i previously
mentioned iguan is extravagant he
dresses lavishly and doesn't act like a
typical humble buddhist shaman another
clue that hints at his humanity is that
his name is actually revealed the
japanese man and the guardian being
supernatural beings are not given names
as well as a couple guys who are
literally just credited as friend
zhonggu's wife as the wife and his
mother-in-law as well
you get the point in a deleted scene
that seemingly takes place after the end
of the film the japanese man is seen
sitting at a bus stop on a pretty empty
road he tries to lure a little girl
across the road with some candy but she
is pulled back by her mother the old man
sitting next to her is staring intensely
at the stranger and possibly knows
something is off about him il guang then
shows up in his car and ubers the
japanese man away the guardian watches
in despair as the two drive off into the
distance she failed to protect her
village from their evil and being that
she is the village guardian she is
unable to give chase also i don't think
she has a car and that ladies and
gentlemen was the whaling this is
without a doubt one of the most complex
films i have ever seen and my favorite
horror movie of all time so much care
and detail went into the making of this
masterpiece that still leaves me
confused to this day but my friends as
always i hope you enjoyed the video and
my attempt to explain and interpret the
film's events themes and meanings i
would love to discuss your
interpretations of the film in the
comments down below thank you all for
tuning in and i cannot wait to see y'all
right back here in the horror mine y'all
stick around